# Beyond Negative Stereotypes - Non-Negative Abusive Utterances about Identity Groups and Their Semantic Variants 
___

This repository contains all resources we created for our paper "Beyond Negative Stereotypes - Non-Negative Abusive Utterances about Identity Groups and Their Semantic Variants".

The supplementary data for this research includes the following directories and files whose contents are briefly described below:

## Goldstandard.csv (file)
___
This file contains the set of 1274 atomic sentences and a total of 11204 sentences along their manual annotation. Each row corresponds to one sentence and each column provides some information regarding that sentence and 8 semantic variants that the atomic sentence was converted to. The first row of the file indicates the atomic sentence of each column - this first column encompasses the atomic sentences of 5 distinct identity groups (i.e. Black people, Gay people, Jews, Muslims and Women). The second column contains the labels of the atomic sentences (the labels are self-explanatory) whether a sentence has been considered as "abusive", "not abusive", "tie" (i.e. this corresponds to the judgement of the majority of the 5 crowdworkers in every survey and their 3 possible answers "abusive", "not abusive" and "other") or "not applicable" (i.e. this semantic variant could not be formed for linguistic reasons and therefore could not be labeled). Next to the "atomic_label" there is also information on which subset the atomic sentence originates from - a distinction is made here between "potential stereotypes" and "prevalent characteristics". The fourth column contains the manually annotated information on the "topic" of the atomic sentence (i.e. "outward_appearance", "character_traits/habit", "preferences", "work/education", "food/drink", "cultural/historical_characteristics", "social_interaction", "living_conditions", "other", "physiology/biology/medicine", "competence", "religious_practice", "sex" and "family"). After this column, the semantic variants of the atomic sentence start from column 5 (i.e. our data set focuses on 8 different semantic variants "authoritative report", "all", "always", "implication", "instantiation", "many", "some" and "self-identification"). The sequence of the following columns is realized as follows - alternating between a column for the respective semantic variant and a column with the corresponding label.

## DataSheet.pdf (file)
___
A data sheet providing summarizing important information about the data contained in this repository.

## SwitchedIdentityGroups (directory)
___
This directory contains the Goldstandard of the substituted identity groups (GoldstandardSwitchedIdentityGroups.csv). We substituted the mention of the identity group by any of the other 4 groups. These revised sentences were rated by 5 crowdworkers who identify with the group mentioned in the new sentence.
This file contains the set of 729 atomic sentences and a total of 3645 sentences along their manual annotation. Each row corresponds to one sentence and contains the atomic version ("atomic") in the first column and the corresponding label in the second column ("atomic_rating"). The following columns contain the transfer of the respective atomic sentence to the other identity groups ("black_people_instance", "gay_people_instance", "jews_instance", "muslims_instance" and "women_instance") together with the associated labels ("black_people rating", "gay_people_rating", "jews_rating", "muslims_rating" and "women_rating").

## Crowdsourcing (directory)
___
This directory contains the directory "AnnotationGuidelines" and the file "Q1Journals.pdf". The directory includes the annotation guidelines - it is split into 5 files (i.e. AnnotationGuidelinesBlackPeople.pdf, AnnotationGuidelinesGayPeople.pdf, AnnotationGuidelinesJews.pdf, AnnotationGuidelinesMuslims.pdf and AnnotationGuidelinesWomen.pdf).

## GPT4Completions (directory)
___
This directory contains the completions generated by GPT-4 for each identity group (i.e. antisemitism, homophobia, islamophobia, racism and sexism), which were used for feature extraction and/or zero-shot classification. Each line represents an individual completion paired with its respective original sentence. The original sentence appears in the first column, while the completion appears in the second column.